you completed a programming tutorial but
still don't know how to code so you take
another tutorial and another and another
nothing seems to be getting better and
you can't figure out why you're putting
in all of this time and effort coding
these projects but feel no more
competent than you did after the first
tutorial well congratulations you're in
what's known as tutorial help but I'm
here to extend you a ladder so that you
can climb your way out of this hell hole
and become the programmer you've always
dreamt of or not it's up to you now just
imagine me reading the whole thing like
this let me actually close that door
over
there hey guys welcome to the video I'm
A programmer who's built countless
projects over the years as a hobbyist as
a WABE iOS Developer as a computer
science student as a YouTuber as a
portfolio Builder and as a professional
software engineer and currently building
a platform for developers from the
ground up now many of those projects
haven't seen the light of day but I have
found value in every single project I've
built more value in these projects than
any tutorial or online course I've ever
taken so today I've Consolidated a
handful of projects I've personally
built to share with you complete with
instructions on how to do it and the
lessons I've learned that way you can
build them and hopefully learn just as
much as I did and at the end of the
video I am going to include a couple of
honorable mention projects that I feel
like should be added to the list but I
didn't as well as a project that I
haven't built just yet but that I plan
to soon or at least would like to in
2024 the very first project I'm going to
talk about has the ability to be
difficult for any level of developer
whether you're a novice or proficient
programmer that is building mini gamess
I built many of these back when I was a
computer science student around 2017 as
well as just as recently is last month I
built my first however during my very
first programming class ever in Java I
remember it like it was yesterday a
fully functional game of tic-tac-toe in
the terminal using dashes and plus signs
and pipes to draw the grid and of course
X's and O's for the X's and O's
prompting each user to Mark a square on
the grid when it's their turn I learned
a lot during this process inputs and
outputs printing variables functions NFL
statements and just by building a game
we all already know and love I found
that comforting because I didn't have to
try to learn about the thing that I was
building I got to focus solely on the
logic and printing out things in the
terminal it really simplified the
process for me and gave me a one toone
understanding of how code Works to build
this yourself you can really use
whatever programming language you want
just whip up net beans or code blocks
which are idees or integrated
development environments which I
specifically mention because that means
they have built-in build and run tools
that way you can focus solely on the
logic of what you're building instead of
trying to figure out how to build it and
how to run it you do that start looking
up a little bit here and there and start
coding that's the way to get it done
don't copy and paste whole entire code
blocks just start coding little by
little if we want to take this minigame
project to the next level we can do that
too one route is web development I
recently built a miname website
containing five different games Word
Search decryption challenge code trivia
card match and riddle reveal this not
only reinforces everything I learned
from building the tic tac toe game came
back 8 n years ago but also adds in that
element of front-end development I used
react use cases um even more logic than
before and to add even more to this
getting the website live using GitHub
actions and hosting her who by the way
is the sponsor of this video but we'll
get to them a little bit later just know
in the meantime they have an outstanding
Black Friday web hosting deal of 85% off
it's the best deal I've ever seen them
have so if you build any websites at all
now is probably the best time to buy
hosting especially especially if you use
my link in the description and then my
code Forest at checkout for an extra 10%
off but again more on them later take a
look at this it's a onetoone difference
in my implementation of Caesar Cipher
decryption Challenge on the left you'll
see the terminal application that I
built with Java and on the right you'll
see the web version built with
JavaScript and react and CSS and HTML of
course same project different languages
different desired outcomes to build the
website version of mini games all you
have to do is whip up something like a
vit project using mpm Create V app just
do that in VSS code start the server and
start coding you're able to build out
the logic in front end design from there
because you have a working application
or we'll call it a website already and
you can see every little change that you
make now slightly moving on from
minigame project while still keeping it
in mind because a minigame project or
just any sort of video game from back in
the day like Tetris or something can
also be an Avenue to learn artificial
intelligence and I mean the Deep stuff
algorithms not the hype in school I
built Connect 4 and then I implemented
an alphabeing pruning algorithm which is
an optimization technique for the minia
max algorithm I also built a sodoku
solver utilizing a naive backtracking
algorithm that simply searches for empty
cells and tries a number checking each
time if the number will lead to a
solution and if not backtracks and tries
the next number but that wasn't good
enough so I also implemented a smart
backtracking algorithm with minimum
remaining values or mrv a more optimized
backtracking algorithm using the mrv
puristic which involves selecting the
cell with the fewest legal values to try
next reducing the number of branches in
the search tree making this algorithm
more efficient and I built a soab bond
solver with a Litany of algorithms to
use like BFS DFS a couple Renditions of
AAR with different humanistics a couple
of greedy best first searches and
uniform cost search this was my first
forray into artificial intelligence back
in 2017 17 so needless to say I learned
a whole lot more than I can simply put
into words and keep the scope of this
video here now for you to build
something like this take the game you
already built like sodoku and start with
a simple AI technique like a naive
backtracking algorithm figure out how to
write that and tie it in with your code
which is all very simple get it working
and then experiment with other
algorithms or enhance the existing
algorithm to include mrv heris or what
have you that's it and by the way I'm
giving you loose instructions for a
reason because this is similar to what I
was given when I built these projects
and in doing so I had to figure all of
this out myself there's only so much you
can learn from following a tutorial
online word for word cod line for COD
line you can see kind of the overall
idea of how a project is built but you
don't really learn code or the logic so
when you have to figure out these things
yourself utilizing the loose
instructions that's where you're really
going to learn the next project can take
shape in many ways it can be GitHub
repositories enhanced with a GitHub read
me or a custom website laying out what
we've built how we built it and why or
even a full-fledged interactive website
that thoroughly showcases your skills
not just on the website but with the
website that's right the most boring
project on the list but probably the
most important if you're looking for a
job or just want to showcase your skills
portfolio what just about everyone
starts out with is a GitHub profile what
you see is what you get code and a repo
but you can also enhance each individual
repo with a readme file to explain what
you built and how you built it meaning
what languages Technologies and or
algorithms did you use and then it would
be helpful if you listed out how to use
it like I did here with a list of
commands or if it's a website linking to
the website in the repost description
for easy access but to enhance that even
more you can also create a profile
readme file in GitHub that enhances your
homepage to really make that GitHub
profile complete and if you've been
looking at the screen for the past 10
seconds instead of just having me open
in an extra Tab while you work on
something else maybe you're coding a
project or something you would have seen
that I build all these things myself you
know why though because a lead developer
once came and spoke to my program in
class back in school and a student asked
probably a question we were all thinking
how much does a GitHub profile matter
when applying to jobs the speaker's
response simply it matters but what if
I'm not really that proud of my projects
the student asked and the speaker said
something is better than nothing A
GitHub profile with simple projects is
better than no GitHub profile at all
I'll personally never forget those words
even though I'm not actively looking for
a job because at that time I wasn't
really proud of my projects either they
were just silly little basic projects
that I knew had no bearing on what you
actually built in the field but after
after he said that the tech lead who by
the way hires more Developers for his
Dev team so in other words he knows what
he's talking about I uploaded all of
those silly little simple projects to my
GitHub and have tried my best to
maintain my GitHub profile ever since he
did specify however that it's not just
specific to GitHub of course it's just
we want to see what you can do in
whatever way you choose to Showcase your
work like a website there are two ways
to approach a portfolio website though
if you're a webdev don't just use the
website to Showcase your skills on it
but build something that showcases your
skills with it a website that if I'm
looking for a frontend developer and I
click on your website I don't even need
to take a look at any of your other
projects because I'm just in awe over
the amazing portfolio website that
you've built I always wanted a website
like this myself and maybe one day I
will but as a programmer you you kind of
realize that guess what not everyone's a
web def I mean for example take a look
at some of these websites these are some
of the most prominent figures in
computer science and not exactly
breathtaking these websites look like
something straight out of the 90s before
CSS was invented but their websites
aren't indicative of their skills nor
should they be these individuals work on
computer science theory and algorithms
and in that space not web design or web
development so no a portfolio website
doesn't need to be this beautiful thing
that's not a necessity all it has to do
is show case your work in your field
that's what I did when I built my
minimal developer portfolio last year
wait crap I kind of forgot I built this
thing how do I use this thing help this
is my fun little portfolio project that
yep still curating most projects are
offline on get hope or
confidential That was supposed to be a
portfolio but I never added the projects
so yeah kind of forgot about that one
that's not what I meant to pull up this
is what I meant to pull up just a little
minimal developer portfolio with light
and dark mode showcasing a couple
projects here linking to them like as
you can see here with what I built and
how I built it as in languages and
Technologies as you can see here a bit
more information about myself and well
now that I look at it I'm not actually
that happy with it not that it's a bad
website but as you can see from this
video I have a whole hell of a lot more
projects than just these three
I don't think these three that I have
listed on the website are indicative of
my skills oh yeah that's right I built
this partly for the tutorial last year
with new devs in mind who may only have
two or three projects to their name
that's what I did well yeah if you want
to build a minimal developer portfolio
I've made two videos on this a showcase
as well as as a tutorial video so uh I
guess check those out those are the
instructions right there for you yeah um
I'll link those two videos in the
description and if you build a website
like that you'll need to host the
website that's where hostinger comes in
and honestly it's just really good
hosting for a really good price and I'm
not just saying that I've been using
them for years with no issues and right
now they have their best Black Friday
deal of all time up to 85% off hosting
plus their website builder which we'll
talk about in a second a free domain
free website migration 24/7 customer
support and 2 months free plus remember
and extra 10% off when you use my code
forest and the link in the description
which by the way is hosting your /ar
night and it's really easy to get
started just click on the link of the
description hostinger.com sfar night
claim deal choose your plan we'll choose
premium here pick the amount of time you
want which for me is forever so I'll go
with 48 months plus 2 months free and
then come down here and make sure you
add in my coupon code f o r s apply and
as you can see an extra 10% off they're
already pretty dang good Black Friday
deal from there everything is very
straightforward thanks to the hosting r
h panel just make sure you change your
DNS record record and you're good to go
or we can take a look at another way in
building a developer portfolio to
Showcase your skills using hostinger AI
website builder and this is how you do
it under the hosting tab in your H panel
set up your premium web hosting or
whichever you got click Start now we
want to create a new website and then we
can go with WordPress psych we're going
to go with hostinger Builder with AI and
then of course we have to claim our free
domain what do we want that to be
definitely a.com right but let's go with
devotes newsletter.
because I need this domain anyway so I
might as well get it now all right and
then you fill out your personal
information you're not going to see mine
all right here it is let AI create you a
website in minutes start creating I'm so
curious what this is going to look like
brand name website type description okay
I know I picked the devotes URL but this
is for me so this is for the portfolio
so we're going to say brand name is
farest night I am a brand and then we're
going to create a portfolio
this is my personal software development
portfolio that showcases projects I've
built complete with an image of it what
technologies I use to build them listed
out and a description of what it does to
build it listed Out Create website all
right I'll see you in a
second so here is where it sits so home
takes you down to portfolio oh no that
takes you over to a portfolio page
interesting so home we have my name a
picture of me presumably about me
another picture just to break up the
monotony and then we have featured
projects recent projects so you can just
kind of have like a little Montage of
projects here project project project
project and then they contact me which
is something I also included in my
portfolio website come over to portfolio
page has that description right here a
few more images of your projects and
then boom weather app e-commerce website
task management you can keep adding
sections I like this obviously we would
need to fill out our own information
within here oh it also has this which I
included in my minimal uh website as
well what did I name that I have my
timeline here and it also has a timeline
education work experience freelance
projects and you can list whatever you
want out within that if you need I'm a
software developer with a passion for
creating Innovative and userfriendly
applications with expertise in various
Technologies such as Java Python and
JavaScript I have built a diverse range
projects that showcase my skills and
experience this is actually pretty cool
I like that and over here we can add
element adjust pages and navigation
website Styles start writing a Blog so
you can add a CMS aspect into this and
then you can also integrate an online
store wow I actually didn't know I could
do that that's pretty insane huh logo
maker AI Rider AI heat map analytics SEO
form submission information Integrations
what is this Google Analytics WhatsApp
Google AdSense dude what this is sick
and then languages of course nice I'm
not going to lie that's actually really
cool I wasn't I wasn't sure how I was
going to feel about it I was just going
to Showcase it but I will be honest with
you I do I like it it's a good starting
point for you to be able to build out
from there put in your information
definitely worth checking out it's
included in your hosting or web hosting
package whatever you choose premium
business whatever the heck the third one
is check it out hostinger.com
forestnight Link in description use code
Forest at checkout for an extra 10% off
these next projects are effectively one
of the same but both equally as fun my
AI robots last year I built an AI Nerf
gun that shoots me in the face when I
get distracted and this year in 2023 I
built an AI coffee gun that feeds me
coffee at regular intervals to maximize
efficiency both projects utilize
artificial intelligence and robots which
is a term I'm using in set of internet
of things because I don't know Internet
of Things is just a really weird term to
me you two or just me all right sick I
learned about Electronics arduinos
tensor flow object detection
segmentation real-time face tracking
proper GPU utilization Jupiter notebook
and so much more and despite the late
nights of frustrating errors and just
things that shouldn't have been
happening in the first place I don't
think I've ever had as much fun coding
as I did when building these projects so
if you're looking for a fun project or
you're trying to reignite that spark
that you once had for coding this may be
the project for you all you need to do
is simple just do research buy the stuff
install a crap ton of packages and
libraries write some code or steal some
code you do whatever you want tie the
code together you're going to have to
work with some Electronics do this do
that just that's how you get started and
all of this kind of like the overall
showcase and how these project projects
were built there's two videos about them
uh maybe I'll just have a fullon link
just a bunch of links about all these
projects in the description and you'll
be able to see a little bit more of how
these projects are done remember they're
not tutorials they're showcases and the
overall just fun little video with a fun
little project but they are helpful to
give you an overall idea of how they're
built now it's time for the honorable
mentions and that one project that I'd
like to build but I haven't yet my
favorite project of all time the one
that broke down that coding barrier for
me tournament simulation now this is an
honorable mention instead of a main
project because I've already made an
entire video about it and I don't really
want to just rehash all that information
that video is probably just as long as
this entire video where I go into full
detail on the project walk you through
everything tell you why I love that
project and how it really broke down
that coding barrier for me so that's why
it's an honorable mention go check out
that video for full detail that project
is definitely worth building the second
honorable mention is a chess AI bot I
actually started building one of these
back in September or so August to
participate in Sebastian log's AI chess
tournament thing that you may have seen
on YouTube but if you didn't we also
mentioned it in the devotes newsletter
where he set out specific criteria and a
starting point consisting of everything
you need whereas all you need to do is
implement the AI however the deadline
for all of this was a the beginning of
October and I kind of had a baby at the
beginning of September so I was a little
bit preoccupied in the project I'd like
to build but haven't yet although I may
figure out a way to somehow integrate it
into the devotes platform is anything
utilizing open AI or chat GPT this could
be in the form of a chat GPT Plugin or
creating something for open ai's GPT
store or it could be something so simple
which is what I would do with DeVos
platform if I do which I probably will
is utilize the open aai API wait I've
definitely used the open AI API I that's
right I utilized the
gpt3 API when I built data set GPT in
that video for bright data I don't
understand how I forget these things
anyway just build some a fun project
would be to build something that you can
put on the GPT store maybe even
potentially make a little bit of money
or create a chat GPT plugin preferably
the former I just think that would be a
pretty cool project to build for now
well it looks like it's about time to
get back to coding on the devotes
platform which by the way we're going to
be launching the MVP soon and going to
be needing some beta testers here in the
next few weeks I'm just saying you
should probably get to coding to if you
can't decide what project to build just
write them all down on a post-er note
each stick them on the wall and throw a
dart at it it doesn't matter what you
build as long as you build something or
feel free to check out those project
videos I mentioned in this video or do
none of that and just tell me to f off I
don't care I do hope you have a good day
though I'll see you in the next one